First of all, I have to tell you, the mind
about which we speak and depend upon is a
myth.
There’s nothing like mind.
Brain is reality, not the mind.
Mind is created by us reacting to outside,
either we react to conditionings or ego.
Thus this mind is created like bubbles in
the ocean of reality, but that’s not reality.
This mind, whatever we decide, we know, is
very limited, illusive and sometimes shocking.
The mind always move in a linear direction,
and because there’s no reality in it, it
recoils, and boomerangs.
Thus all the enterprises, all the projections
so far we have done, it seems, come back to
us.
Whatever they discover, comes back to us as
a big destructive power or a very big shock.
So one has to decide what to do, how to be
out of this track of our mind.
Kundalini is the solution.
When She’s awakened, She takes you, with
that awakening, She takes you beyond your
mind.
The first thing is to go beyond your mind.
With mind, you’ll do many things, but it
will not be satisfying, it will be not a solution,
it will not help you.
And when we start depending too much on our
mind we develop all kinds of physical, mental,
emotional problem.
Now the latest is the stress, and this stress
has no solution they say, but in Sahaja Yoga,
we find the solution, by crossing over this
mind.
It’s like a barrier for our advancement.
So when you get your realisation, you must
understand that your Kundalini has taken your
attention beyond the mind.
Now, this reaction to outside has come because
we human beings have a prism-like brain, or
we can say a prism-like skull, and when the
energy passes into it, I’ve explained it
in My books, it goes into bifurcations, or
you can say refractions, by which our attention
goes out, and we react.
If we react too much, then these bubbles create
a very horrible mind which can lead to any
kind of thing.
It justifies itself, it pampers your ego.
The ego and the conditioning that creates
this mind start using this mind for the purpose
of their fulfilment, of their, all the accumulation
of ideas and thoughts which has no backing,
which has no reality with it.
It’s like we make the computer [and] ultimately
we become slaves of the computer, we make
the watches ourselves, and then we become
slaves of the watches.
That’s how it dominates human beings.
And when a person who has a very strong mind
decides to destroy, like Hitler did, with
some idea, he can go on destroying which has
a very far fetched effect on our culture,
on our spirituality.
Now the first step is to become thoughtlessly
aware – where you cross your mind, you go
above your mind, mind cannot affect you.
This is the first stage as we call, is thoughtless
awareness.